But, you say, may not something external withstand me?--Nothing can keep you from justice, temperance, and wisdom.--Yet, perhaps some other activity of mine may be obstructed.--True, but by yielding to this impediment, and by turning with calmness to that which is in your power, you may happen on another course of action equally suited to the ordered life of which we are speaking.
Let the leading and ruling part of your soul stand unmoved by the stirrings of the flesh, whether gentle or rude.
All judgment, intention, desire and aversion are within the soul, to which no evil can ascend.
Man must consider, not only that each day part of his life is spent, and that less and less remains to him, but also that, even if he live longer, it is very uncertain whether his intelligence will suffice as heretofore for the understanding of his affairs, and for grasping that knowledge which aims at comprehending things human and divine.
For this alone, that our souls be just, our actions unselfish, our speech ever sincere, and our disposition such as may cheerfully embrace whatever happens, seeing it to be inevitable, familiar, and sprung from the same source and origin as we ourselves.
For that which befalls equally him who lives in accord, and him who lives in discord with Nature, can neither be natural nor unnatural.
If in the life of man you find anything better than justice, truth, sobriety, manliness; and, in sum, anything better than the satisfaction of your soul with itself in that wherein it is given to you to follow right reason; and with fate in that which is determined beyond your control; if, I say, you find aught better than this, then turn thereto with all your heart, and enjoy it as the best that is to be found.
The one precious thing in life is to spend it in a steady course of truth and justice, with kindliness even for the false and the unjust.
In this spirit we should act throughout life; and when things of great apparent worth present themselves, we should strip them naked, view their meanness, and cast aside the glowing description which makes them seem so glorious.
For repressing vain glory, it serves to remember that it is no longer in your power to make your whole life, even from your youth onwards, a life worthy of a philosopher.